#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language spanish
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language french
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter*
Resumen 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Human Activity Recognition (HAR) es un tema de investigación ampliamente
 cubierto en la última década por su relevancia en áreas donde el contexto
 de los usuarios es importante para construir aplicaciones interactivas.
 Las aplicaciones móviles para teléfonos inteligentes tienen la capacidad
 de capturar datos del entorno por medio de sensores y en conjunción con
 algoritmos que aprovechan la información sensible al contexto, se convierten
 en una poderosa plataforma de desarrollo.
 En este trabajo, proponemos un sistema HAR denominado HARDroid que está
 específicamente diseñado para detectar actividades comunes de los usuarios.
 Además, los datos recopilados de los usuarios en pruebas de campo se tienen
 en cuenta para mejorar el clasificador de reconocimiento de actividad.
 HARDroid está disponible gratuitamente como una biblioteca que puede incluirse
 en las aplicaciones de Android.
 Finalmente, se presenta una evaluación que compara el clasificador inicial
 con un clasificador mejorado, logrando una exhaustividad del 91.34 % y una
 precisión del 92.04 %.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Human Activity Recognition (HAR) is a research topic broadly covered in
 the last decade for its relevance in areas where the users’ context is
 important to build interactive applications.
 Smartphone applications have the capability to collect data from the environmen
t and along with algorithms that take advantage of context-aware information
 becomes a powerful development platform.
 In this work, we propose a HAR System denominated HARDroid that is specifically
 designed to detect common user activities.
 Furthermore, data collected from users on ground are taken into account
 to improve the activity recognition classifier.
 HARDroid is freely available as a library that may be included in Android
 applications.
 Finally, an evaluation that comparing the initial classifier with an improved
 classifier is presented, achieving a recall of 91.34% and a precision of
 92.04%.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
